*note: Ria shadow day*
*used 1 uL for qubit*

**Sample 1**:
072024_PAN_BDT_T3_697_MCAV
0.542 g 
46.2 ng/μL 

**Sample 2:** 
072024_PAN_BDT_T3_699_MCAV
0.129 g 
29.6 ng/μL

**Sample 3:**
072024_PAN_BDT_T3_709_MCAV
0.0275 g 
36.4 ng/μL

**Sample 4:**  
072024_PAN_BDT_T3_711_MCAV
0.1025 g 
8.04 ng/μL
*note: took tissue from this sample twice accidentally but thankfully noticed before capping the bead disruptor tube (all tissue was still in the cap) so I combined them into one bead disrupter tube*

**Sample 5:**
072024_PAN_BDT_T2_609_MCAV
0.0326 g
92.8 ng/μL

**Sample 6:**
072024_PAN_BDT_T1_1020_MCAV
0.0165 g
19.1 ng/μL

**Sample 7:**
072024_PAN_BDT_T1_1026_MCAV
0.0148 g
25.8 ng/μL

**Sample 8:**
102023_PAN_BDT_T1_116_MCAV
0.0303 g
25.0 ng/μL

**Sample 9:**
102023_PAN_BDT_T1_151_MCAV
 0.0574 g
 61.8 ng/μL
 *note: added double the amount of SLX buffer, decided to double up on all following reagents to keep reagent ratios the same.* 

**Sample 10:** 
Negative 
Too Low 

# DNA Extraction Protocol 
Omega Bio-Tek E.Z.N.A. Soil kit: [https://www.omegabiotek.com/product/soil-dna-extraction-kit-e-z-n-a-soil-dna-kit/?cn-reloaded=1#protocols](https://www.omegabiotek.com/product/soil-dna-extraction-kit-e-z-n-a-soil-dna-kit/?cn-reloaded=1#protocols) 
## Preparation
- Aliquot Elution buffer into 1.5 mL Eppendorf tubes
- Heat a heating block/incubator to 70 ◦C, no shaking, put Elution buffer aliquot in
- Heat the water bath/incubator to 37◦C
- Make sure your P2 buffer and cHTR reagent are chilled
- Make sure HBC buffer and wash buffer are correctly diluted with appropriate chemicals
- UV Sterilize
    - 2 x # of samples in 1.5 mL Lo-Bind Eppendorf tubes
    - 1 x # of samples in 2 mL cryovials (or 2 x 1.5 mL Eppendorf tubes)
    - 1 x # of samples in Disruptor tubes
    - 1 x # of samples in HiBind column plus collector tube
- Wash Hands up to your elbows & mask up!
- Bleach all surfaces prior to use (heat sterilization bench, and Bio Safety Cabinet)
- Thaw coral samples on ice
## Tissue lysis
1. Heat Sterilize your forceps and scissors, wait to cool

2. Collect at most **HALF** of each coral sample. In the RNAlater tube, try to cut the sample into small pieces, then transfer to cap of disruptor tube and crush with tweezers to make a tissue slurry.

3. Weigh your sample in the disruptor tube and note how much sample you’ve processed. Aim for 150 – 250 mg of coral sample (but it may depend on how much skeleton is in your sample).

4. Add 725 µL of SLX-Mlus buffer to the disruptor tube. Vortex at top speed using the BenchMixer V2) until the coral skeleton is virtually bare (usually 15 minutes, but may be longer depending on how crushed the sample is).
*tab the mixer plate to the machine to stop the plate from spinning and ruining the screw*

5. Centrifuge shortly to remove droplets from the lid.

6. Add 72 µL DS buffer to each sample. Incubate at 70 degrees for 5 minutes.

7. Vortex samples briefly.

8. Incubate for another 5 minutes at 70 degrees.

9. Add 3 µL RNAse and incubate for 2-3 minutes at 37 ˚C.

10. Centrifuge at 10000 g/rpm for 5 minutes at room temperature.
##  Inhibitor Removal
11. Transfer up to 600 µL supernatant into a 1.5 mL Lo-Bind Eppendorf tube. _The goal is to collect all the liquid without collecting any beads or debris.

*Note to self: use P1000 to transfer 500 µL then use P20 to transfer transfer 20 µL 5 times (100 µL total)* 

12. Add 200 µL chilled P2 buffer and 300 µL of resuspended cHTR reagent.
*Do not shake the cHTR reagent bottle: this foams it up and barely does anything for the resuspension. Its better to just pipette up and down using 1000uL pipette.*

13. Centrifuge at 10000 g/rpm for 2 minutes at room temperature.
_If the pellet has not fully settled out of the supernatant, you may recentrifuge at the same setting. **Be sure to balance out the centrifuge if you are doing this! 
- *if the pellet does not settle after a second round, centrifuge again at a slightly higher g/rpm setting* 
## Binding
14. Transfer ~550uL supernatant into 2 new centrifuge tubes each, make sure not to disturb the pellet. Add an equal volume of XP1 buffer to each tube (about 550 µL, adjust according to volume).
*usually get around 950 µL of supernatant in total

15. Insert a HiBind column into a 2 mL collection tube. Transfer 700 µL of the sample into the column. Centrifuge at 10000 g/rpm for 1 minute at room temperature. Discard the filtrate and reuse the collection tube.

16. Repeat step 14 until all filtrate (from both sample tubes) has passed through
*usually I have 500 µL remaining after the two intial 700 µL runs*
## Washing
17. Add 500 µL of HBC buffer to the column. Centrifuge at 10000 rpm/g for 1 minute at room temperature. Discard filtrate.

18. Add 700 µL DNA wash buffer to the column. Centrifuge at 10000 rpm/g for 1 minute at room temperature. Discard filtrate.

19. Repeat step 17.

20. Centrifuge the column without loading it with anything for 2 minutes at maximum speed at room temperature.
## Elution
21. Transfer the column to a clean empty Lo-Bind Eppendorf tube. Add 50 µL elution buffer, heated to 70˚C. Incubate for 10 minutes at room temperature. Centrifuge at maximum speed for 1 minute.

22. Keep the column in the same eppendorf tube and add 25 µL elution buffer, heated to 70 ˚C. Incubate at room temperature for 10 minutes. Centrifuge at maximum speed for 1 minute.

23. Measure concentration using Qubit and store DNA at -20 ˚C
*my samples usually go into penguin fridge*